[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
One of the world's foremost UFO
researchers and investigators
is Grant Cameron.
He's won a numerous series
of awards for his work,
and he's a noted author.
His latest work is
called "Managing Magic,"
which has to do with
the government's
plan for disclosure.
Grant, welcome to Beyond Belief.
>>GRANT CAMERON:
Thank you, George.
I appreciate your interest,
and I'm honored to be here.
>>NOORY: You are by far one
of the top investigators
in this field.
What got Grant
Cameron into this?
>>CAMERON: I had a UFO sighting.
I had a town in this book.
I tried to publish
it in the '70s.
It's finally going to
be published in August.
>>NOORY: That long?
>>CAMERON: But at the time
when I had the sighting,
it was a small town.
I live just above
North Dakota in Canada.
It was a small town
there, and these sightings
were taking place.
I had no interest in UFOs.
I had interest in
near-death experiences.
I had done a study at
hospitals with dying cancer
patients and stuff like that.
No interest in UFOs,
but I just wanted
to see what everybody
was seeing in the town.
So I said to my friend,
let's go and see this thing.
And he said, OK, because it was
in the newspaper all the time.
>>NOORY: It was, like,
a regular occurrence?
>>CAMERON: Regular, it was
coming almost every night.
And it was a small town,
2,000 people, just farming.
So we didn't go
for three months.
And then the local TV station
caught this thing jumping off
the ground.
They actually had a film crew
caught it, and I said, come on.
Let's go see what
they're looking at.
And I always describe it as
I bought the lottery ticket,
but I knew I was going to win.
It was like you buy it.
And I went out there.
And the thing flew
right in front the car.
It was not a light in the sky.
It was an object
that flew right down
low, right in front of the car.
And it just changed my life.
I just went, like, wow.
And then two nights later,
I dragged all my friends out
there.
And I said, you've
got to see this.
It will change your life.
I was all excited.
And I brought all
my friends out.
And an hour later, they said,
we're going back to Winnipeg
for pizza.
We're tired.
We don't want to.
I said, come on.
Stay.
15 minutes later, it came.
And it came right at
us the second night.
It was, like, right there.
And it was almost like 30
years later, I was thinking,
I wonder if it was done on
purpose, just to drag me
into this thing, because all my
friends, nobody was affected.
But me, I just fell off
the edge of the Earth.
And so what I had
done was when I
tried to publish the manuscript,
the local publisher who should
have published it, because
it was a famous story, said,
Mr. Cameron, you may believe
in this kind of stuff.
Count me among the unbelievers.
And I went, oh, this
sighting stuff, I
had recorded all the people
in the town, hundreds
of people that had sightings.
And they didn't care.
And then I said, all
I'm interested in is
what did I see.
Somebody in the world has to
know what I saw, somebody.
I'm just a little guy.
And that's where I went
through the chain of command.
I went to the
Canadian government.
Then I went and chased
the former president
of Penn State University,
who knew what was going on.
And he led to the president
of the United States
because he had worked
for Eisenhower.
And so when I went to
the Presidential Library,
looking for Dr. Walker's files,
it suddenly occurred to me.
I said, well, the president
is the most powerful guy
in the world.
He's got to know
what's going on.
And that's where the search
through the Presidential
Library started,
to find out, what
does the president know about
the most important subject
in the world?
>>NOORY: And some know.
Some don't.
>>CAMERON: I think
they all know.
I used to believe that.
But I believe that they all know
and that they all are briefed.
And what they're
trying to cover is
they want you to think the
president is a puppet, so you
don't ask him,
because if you think
it's the Wizard of
Oz or an evil cabal,
you're never going to ask them.
But if everybody knows
that Barack Obama--
for example, Barack
Obama, in 2015
he gives an interview
to GQ Magazine.
And GQ Magazine, I don't know
whether the guy fell asleep
or what happened.
But he said, well,
did you ever get
to look at the secret files,
you know, the book of secrets?
And he said, you
know, everybody always
asks me about UFOs and Roswell.
He said, I just want
to let you know,
that top-secret stuff isn't as
exciting as you think it is.
And it's like, this is
the ideal opportunity.
And the next question
was, would you
like to be a Supreme
Court justice?
And it's, like, unbelievable.
So this is the whole thing.
>>NOORY: It's like not hitting
the tennis ball back, huh?
>>CAMERON: Yeah, or,
you know, George Bush
coming out on the Kimmel
show just recently.
And Kimmel now asks
everybody that question.
>>NOORY: It's a standard
question for a president.
>>CAMERON: And Bush said,
well, that's the same question
that my daughters always ask me.
And then Kimmel says, well,
can you answer the question?
No.
Are you going to
tell us anything?
I'm not telling you nothing.
>>NOORY: Well, as
a matter of fact,
Bill Clinton was on
Jimmy Kimmel, when you
talk about standard questions.
>>BILL CLINTON: When the
Roswell thing came up,
I knew we'd get
gazillions of letters.
So I had all the Roswell
papers reviewed, everything.
>>JIMMY KIMMEL: If you saw
that there were aliens there,
would you tell us?
>>CLINTON: Yeah.
>>KIMMEL: You would?
>>CLINTON: I would.
>>CLINTON: Well, I think, look.
What do we know?
We know now we live in an
ever-expanding universe.
We know that there are
billions of stars and planets,
literally, out there, and the
universe is getting bigger.
We know from our
fancy telescopes
that just in the last 2
years more than 20 planets
have been identified outside
our solar system that
seem to be far enough away from
their suns and dense enough
that they might be able to
support some form of life.
So it makes it increasingly
less likely that we're alone.
>>KIMMEL: Oh, you're
trying to give me
a hint that there are aliens?
>>CLINTON: No, I'm trying
to tell you I don't know.
But if we were visited someday,
I wouldn't be surprised.
I just hope that it's
not like "Independence
Day," the movie, that
it's, you know, a conflict.
>>KIMMEL: Well, now we
have friendly aliens.
>>CLINTON: It may
be the only way
to unite this increasingly
divided world of ours.
>>NOORY: Do you believe him
when he said, I don't know?
>>CAMERON: He's doing
the double take.
He says, I asked for
all the Roosevelt files,
and I don't believe
a UFO crashed.
Well, you either have
it one way or the other.
Either you've got all
the Roswell files,
or you don't know
what's going on.
If you don't know
what's going on,
how did you get all
the Roswell files?
Because the official story
was the Roswell files
were destroyed.
When the US Air Force looked for
them in 1993, they're all gone.
And yet Bill said he read them.
And so it's this double take.
But when you get Hillary
on there, and he asks her,
he said, OK, l had
your husband on here.
And he said he
couldn't find anything.
What about you?
And she can't even
wait for the applause.
>>KIMMEL: When we had your
husband, President Clinton,
on this show, I asked him
about UFOs and Area 51
and if he looked into--
because if I was president,
that's the first thing I'd do.
I'd go right into those files
and see what was going on.
And he said that he did
do that, and that he
didn't find anything.
>>HILLARY CLINTON: Well,
I'm going to do it again.
>>KIMMEL: Yeah, why not?
>>CLINTON: And, you
know, there's a new name.
It's unexplained
aerial phenomenon.
>>KIMMEL: Unexplained
aerial phenomenon, really?
>>CLINTON: Yeah, UAP, that's
the latest nomenclature.
>>KIMMEL: I like the old one.
I like UFO.
I don't know why.
>>CLINTON: Well, I think we
can use them interchangeably.
But I would like us
to go into those files
and hopefully make as much
of that public as possible.
If there's nothing
there, let's tell people
there's nothing there.
>>KIMMEL: What if there
is something there?
>>CLINTON: Well, if
there is something there,
unless it's a threat
to national security,
I think we ought to
share it with the public.
>>CAMERON: Hillary has never
not answered the question.
She has not brought
it up, but she has not
walked around the question
in the same way Bill did.
And I actually believe that
she was going to do something
if she had gotten in.
Unfortunately, she didn't win.
>>NOORY: There was
a picture of her
with the late
Lawrence Rockefeller,
holding a book,
obviously on UFOs.
Hoes And she was
walking with him.
You know she was talking
to him about that.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, and
she was very open,
because that was
through one of my FOIAs.
What happened was I got the
1,000 pages of documents
from the Clinton White House
when they were still in.
And this dealt with the
Rockefeller Initiative,
where Rockefeller comes
to the White House,
and he's demanding disclosure.
And they deal with him.
So all of these
documents were released
when Bill was still in.
So when the Clinton Library
opened five years later,
FOIA works first
come, first served.
So I had all the
first FOIAs in there.
And all the news media
in the United States
was trying to figure out
why 11 of the first 18 FOIAs
were on UFOs.
Well, because I was at
the front of the line.
>>NOORY: You were there.
>>CAMERON: And I had
all the documents.
>>NOORY: That's what you wanted.
>>CAMERON: I knew all the
people that were involved.
So I was asking for
Rockefeller's files,
Hillary's files, Bill's
files, Podesta's files.
And all of these
requests were going in.
And so that's one of the
documents that I asked for,
was all the pictures
from the ranch, when
Rockefeller went to the ranch.
And that's where the picture
with the book came out.
>>NOORY: That was you.
>>CAMERON: And so when
Hillary came out in 2000,
when she was running
for election last time,
she said, do you know that
the most requested item
at the Clinton Library is UFOs?
And I went, she's
actually paying attention.
It's like you figure that
you're wasting your time,
and suddenly she
references my FOIAs.
And that dragged me back
in, because I'm more
interested in consciousness.
I've sort of given up on--
I actually gave all the
Rockefeller Initiative
documents away, because I
figure the president knows.
He's really not
going to tell you.
And I'm more interested in
the consciousness thing,
where I think the answers are.
And yet when she
referenced it, I
said, well, man, I've got
all this Clinton stuff.
So then I wrote a book
on Hillary and Bill
and their fascinating
interest in UFOs.
>>NOORY: Which is
real, which is real.
>>CAMERON: Which is real, yeah,
and so Hillary, actually, I
think if you asked
her, she would actually
answer the question.
She was prepared to talk.
And I was actually
asked by our producer,
after the election was over,
when Hillary lost, and said,
if you had a chance to ask
Bill Clinton a question,
what would you ask him?
And I'm thinking to myself,
he's got an interview
with Bill Clinton.
And so I said, the only
question you want to ask--
and I always tell people, if
you get the president, a vice
president, a four-star general,
or the unified command,
there's only one
question you ask.
And that's the question
I asked Dick Cheney.
You don't want to know
if they've seen a UFO.
You don't want to know if
they're interested in UFOs,
because they're going to
walk around the question.
The only question you ask them--
and that's the question
I asked Bill Clinton--
at any point, did you
ask for a UFO briefing,
or did you receive
a UFO briefing?
And if so, when was it,
and what were you told?
And when I asked Dick Cheney
that question, he said,
if I had been briefed
on that subject,
it would probably be classified.
And I wouldn't be
talking about it.
>>NOORY: Which is
exactly what happened.
>>CAMERON: Exactly, and
so nobody's asked Bill
the question.
But Kimmel is
getting very close.
Kimmel is saying, did you
go and look for the files?
>>NOORY: He doesn't
let it go, either.
Whenever there's a
presidential candidate on,
he goes right after it.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, and you see
with the Obama situation,
if you remember, Ben Hansen
from "Fact Versus Faked"
does the analysis.
So when you play
the clip of Bill,
you know, Bill's doing
all these body motions.
And Ben Hansen saying is saying
it looks deceptive, like he's
being deceptive on camera.
So if you take a look at the
Obama clip, Obama comes out.
And he says, you
realize now they're
going to be watching everything
you do, when you swallow,
everything you do.
And that's referring to the
fact that Hansen is going
to go over the video and check.
And so when he gets asked
the question, he said, OK.
Bill said he couldn't
get anything.
When you went there,
what did you find?
They're watching on high-def TV.
He's got a lapel
pin, a US lapel pin.
And according to
Ben Hansen, when
he gets asked that question,
he's breathing at 42 times
a minute.
He's hyperventilating.
>>NOORY: Wow, wow.
>>CAMERON: And
this is a guy who's
six years as
president, who's used
to answering tough questions.
And when he gets asked that
question, he's petrified.
And he says, I can't
reveal anything,
which is the right answer.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he was
telling the truth.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, he's
So you see this kind of thing.
And I think Kimmel
is almost the guy who
may break this thing loose.
>>NOORY: If we don't.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, if we don't.
He keeps asking the question.
He gets them on there.
But I think it's
a matter of time.
And if you look at
most of them, they're
really not lying about it.
They're just walking around it.
Bill Clinton will do that
sort of dance that you showed.
>>NOORY: And he gets
his laughs out of it.
>>CAMERON: Barack
Obama will make a joke.
Hillary is very direct, but
she's really not been asked.
And in Hillary's case,
she's never brought it up.
There's some sort of
arrangement where she only
answers questions.
So if you remember,
the Wikileaks
documents reference
the fact that she
was going to appear on Kimmel's
show in November of 2015.
And she had actually
rehearsed the question
because Podesta had said,
ask Hillary about the aliens.
And I guess the question
didn't get asked.
And she was upset
because she had
practiced for five minutes the
answer to the UFO question.
Now that's not somebody who
doesn't know what's going on.
And what she said
in her interview,
when she answered
Kimmel, she said,
if I can get agreement, which
means that as the president
there's going to be whoever
it is, some sort of council
or the national security people.
If I can get agreement,
I will release,
which indicates that she will
have the files in front of her.
And there's some sort
of meeting takes place.
>>NOORY: And now it's gone.
>>CAMERON: And now it's gone.
>>NOORY: The first craft you
saw, it came very close to you.
Can you describe
what it looked like?
>>CAMERON: It looked
like it was alive.
It was pulsing.
It was coming from
the left to the right.
And what happened was
we were looking around.
We were looking at what
everybody was looking at.
You know, we've seen
stars and planets.
And we're going, well, if
that's what they're looking at,
it's not very impressive.
But when it came,
nobody said, is
that what they're looking at?
Everybody just
went, there it is.
And it was alive.
It was pulsing.
It was, like, a
plasma-type object.
And it was pulsing.
>>NOORY: Did it look solid?
>>CAMERON: Well,
it looked like it
was an object that had huge
light coming out of it.
But it was an object,
but you couldn't
see the shape of the object.
It was longer than it was high.
>>NOORY: There was too
much light around it?
>>CAMERON: There
was too much light.
It was really, really intense.
And it was moving up and down.
What we called bobbing.
It was sort of
moving up and down.
So it was coming across
the front of the car,
right in front of the car.
>>NOORY: How big would it be?
>>CAMERON: Big as a small plane.
>>NOORY: 30 feet?
>>CAMERON: Hard to tell,
it was fairly close.
So at night, it's hard to tell.
>>NOORY: Any sound?
>>CAMERON: No sound,
nothing, and it was so low.
There was a set of school
buses outside this town.
And I remember,
I was getting out
of the car-- the car
was still moving--
because I wanted to
get through the ditch
and across this parking lot.
Because it was so low,
it was going to go in
behind these school buses.
And then I just watched it, and
it just sort of pulsed away.
>>NOORY: Did it illuminate
everything it came close to?
>>CAMERON: No, in fact,
a year later, I had one.
It was a smaller object,
where I was 50 feet away.
This is the one
when I famously was
going to jump on this thing.
It was like, you know,
the doubting Thomas.
I wanted to touch.
I realized that you
could get burned.
Something could happen,
but I had to touch it.
And I remember, it was this far.
It was sitting on a wooden
bridge, a drainage bridge where
they were draining
water off the fields.
And I remember it
was sitting this far
from the edge of the bridge.
And it was so bright,
you couldn't look at it
with binoculars.
We had binoculars.
>>NOORY: It hurt your eyes.
>>CAMERON: It would hurt
your eyes, it was so bright.
And yet it was this far away
from the edge of the bridge.
And it just was casting
this orange glow.
It was an orange object.
It was orange glow
on the bridge.
And to this day,
it still haunts me.
It's like, why was it not
lighting up the bridge?
It should have
lit up everything.
>>NOORY: It should've.
>>CAMERON: So we called
them dead lights.
It was like a very
intense light,
but not casting any light.
>>NOORY: Almost like
an LED light does.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, yeah, and so
to me, it sort of dragged me in.
And it got me into
this situation
where I started this
chain of command
up through trying to find
out-- and then I chased,
you know, the head scientist for
the CIA, what the CIA is doing.
And I came to conclusion
with my latest book
that the government is
actually leaking material.
>>NOORY: On purpose.
>>CAMERON: On
purpose, and they've
been doing it for 70 years.
But what they're doing
is they're leaking
what's called the core story.
They've been here.
There's been a craft, a crash.
We've done some
back engineering.
We're not doing so well.
This core story, but
they're protecting
the classified information.
And so what I do in
"Managing Magic," the book,
is I go through 70
years because what
happened was if you remember
the Wikileaks emails,
one of the big disclosures there
was Tom DeLonge the famous rock
star.
All his emails
ended up in there.
He had the two generals and the
head of Lockheed Skunk Words,
and he's dealing
with John Podesta.
And I saw this.
And I realized,
they're doing it again,
because I've been in
this for a long time.
So I was around when Bill
Moore, in the 1980s, when he
wrote the first Roswell book.
So I knew they've had
been doing this all along.
And I had dealt
with Bob Emenegger,
who had done this
film in the 1970s
for the Nixon administration.
>>NOORY: Were they
being used these people,
and they didn't know it?
>>CAMERON: Well,
some of them knew it.
Some of them didn't know it.
It's sort of like they
were offered material.
Like Disney, for
example, Disney did
a lot of documentaries
for the US government
during World War II, for the
military and stuff like that.
And he was asked
to do a documentary
for the government in 1956.
And it was the same thing as
Bob Emenegger's in the 1970s,
where they offered him a bunch
of film and stuff like that.
He puts the
documentary together,
and then they pull the
film at the very end.
And Bob Emenegger is the most
prime example of the fact.
I say there's three
different options.
The government is disclosing.
And they're not disclosing
because if they wanted
to disclose they would get The
New York Times, The Washington
Post, CNN, Fox.
>>NOORY: And pelt them,
pelt them with stuff.
>>CAMERON: And they would take
them and show them the crafts,
the bodies, give them a
letter from the president,
have a news conference.
So they're not disclosing.
>>NOORY: Go on my
radio show, all that.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, exactly,
and they're not covering up,
because if they were
covering up, they would do--
I live in Canada.
And because I do the
presidents, everybody always
says to me, well, what's
going on in Canada?
Last year, Paul
Hellyer told a story
about the head of emergency
management in Canada.
>>NOORY: Former Canadian
defense minister.
>>CAMERON: Defense
minister, and he
tells this story about his
dying guy who was the emergency
management guy in Canada,
who on his deathbed
tells Hellyer,
yes, I was briefed.
I was taken to Area 51.
I went inside a craft,
all this kind of stuff.
Other than that,
people would ask me
what's going on in Canada,
I'd say, I have no idea.
I have no idea, because
if you want to cover up,
you just shut up.
Stop talking about it.
And you don't say anything.
And that's what happens
in Australia and Canada
and Belgium.
And nobody knows
what's going on.
In the United States of America,
everybody is leaking documents.
There's people leaking stuff,
so they're not covering up.
If they wanted to cover up,
they would just shut up.
And the story would go away.
And the prime example of that is
in the 1970s, is Bob Emenegger.
So they shut down
Blue Book in 1969.
And they never have to
ever talk about UFOs again.
They don't have to put any
press people to answer every UFO
sighting that comes up.
They can just shut
up and do nothing.
So what did they do?
In 1973, Bob Emenegger,
who worked for the Nixon
administration for
campaign, he was
working on their advertising.
>>NOORY: He was part
of their media guy.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, and he was
working with Grey Advertising
in Los Angeles.
And he was friends
with Bob Haldeman.
He'd gone to school with Bob
Haldeman, the chief of staff
for Nixon.
And he comes up.
And he doesn't believe in UFOs.
And he gets called to
Norton Air Force Base.
And this to me is the example.
If you want to say that
they're covering up,
you've got to explain this one.
He gets called there.
And they say, well,
Watergate days.
We've got problems
with the military.
And we need you to do some
documentaries to make the US
military look better.
So they had eight documentaries.
They do 3D holography, working
with dolphins, all these kind
of things, so fine.
>>NOORY: It sounds like the
department of propaganda,
doesn't it?
>>CAMERON: Yeah,
exactly, and he was going
to do these films for them.
And then they
said, and we'd also
like you to do a
documentary on UFOs.
And we'd like you to hide
it under the other eight
documentaries.
And Bob went, what?
You mean this is for real?
Because he said, he
used to bug his wife.
He'd say, Margaret, quit
reading that garbage.
You know, the alien had my
baby stuff, that's garbage.
And he's suddenly,
this is for real?
And then he told Paul Shartle,
who was the security manager.
He said, this is for real?
And Paul says,
what would you say
if I told you that we had
a landing of an alien craft
at Holloman Air Force
Base in May of 1971?
And we filmed it from three
different vantage points.
>>NOORY: Oh, my,
and they have it.
>>CAMERON: And they have it.
And Linda Howe was offered
it, and Bob Emenegger
was offered it.
And so he had this
documentary where he
was able to go into anywhere.
He said he could go into the
Pentagon, he and Allan Sandler,
who was his partner.
They could walk into the
Pentagon without signing in.
They were dealing with
all the top people.
They were dealing with Art
Lundahl, who was the top CIA
guy that was dealing with UFOs.
They did all this stuff.
They put out the documentary.
And then the funding was coming
from the MacArthur Foundation.
And they said, oh,
Mr. MacArthur's
having problems with people
bugging him about putting up
the money for the film.
Could you please pull his
name from the credits?
But you can keep the money.
And so they put this
documentary out.
So in '69, they shut it down.
In 1973, they're pouring
gas back on it again
and starting it all up again
and allowing these guys
to do a documentary that
basically says, yeah.
This is for real, and
we landed an alien
at Holloman Air Force Base.
But they pulled the
film at the very end.
And in the
documentary, which was
called "UFOs, Past, Present,
and Future," in 1975
it was released.
It was rereleased in 1979.
In that film, there's
eight seconds of the film
that they pulled.
>>NOORY: The best
part, too, probably.
>>CAMERON: Well, no, the
worst part, just as the object
is coming over the
hill into Holloman.
And it's just a light
coming over the hill.
So I said, Bob, you told
me they pulled the film.
He said, yeah, they did.
And he told me this story
about some guy driving
across the country in a Datsun
with this film in the backseat.
And I said, but there's
eight seconds in the film.
You told me to pull the film.
And he said, but that
was just background.
I said, what do you
mean it was background?
He said, it didn't
show anything.
So they allowed him
to use the object
as it comes over the hill.
When it lands, and you can see
the actual alien coming out
of the craft, and the
craft, that's classified.
>>NOORY: You don't see that.
>>CAMERON: You don't see that.
So they give him
that eight seconds,
and they allow him to use
it in the documentary.
And then in the 1980s,
they're not finished yet.
In the 1980s, they want
Jacques Vallee involved,
and they want J. Allen Hynek.
So there's a guy by the
name of General Glen E.
Miller, who is now at
Norton with Paul Shartle.
And they bring them in,
and now they're saying,
we want you to do
another documentary.
The government liked
your documentary
you did in the 1970s.
We'd like you to do another one.
And now he's suspicious.
He says--
>>NOORY: Why, right?
>>CAMERON: Is this Reagan?
Is this Reagan behind this?
And no nobody gave the answer.
And MIller says, Hynek is there.
And he says to Paul
Shartle, I want
you to pull all the UFO
film and show it to Hynek.
And he says, well, General,
I would need a request
for that, a written request.
And he said, God damn,
I'll have your ass.
You pull the film for Hynek.
And he said, General, I can't
do it without a request.
And so this is a guy who was
Ronald Reagan's first agent
at Hollywood, Glen E. Miller.
And three months after,
they dismissed these guys.
But you see all these
background things,
for example, "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind."
Bob does the first
documentary, where
they're going to land the craft
at Holloman Air Force Base.
>>NOORY: That was
all information
that went to Spielberg.
>>CAMERON: Well, Spielberg,
he said to me, you know,
if you take a look at "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind,"
Bob, and you look at
Holloman, it's the same story.
It's just a different location.
He said, oh, I didn't tell you?
And I said, didn't tell me what?
I didn't tell you I gave
a copy to Spielberg?
I said, no, you
didn't tell me that.
>>NOORY: Whoa, and that's
how he built his movie.
>>CAMERON: And he
said, I told you,
Anne Spielberg worked as
a line producer for us.
>>NOORY: On the documentary.
>>CAMERON: We did a
bunch of documentaries,
and Anne Spielberg
was working with us.
And she said, Steven, would you
like a copy of the documentary?
And I said, wow.
And he said, you know what?
After "Close
Encounters" came out,
Steven Spielberg's mother
came up to me and said, Bob,
I've seen your version
of the landing.
And I've seen Steven's
version of the landing.
And I like Steven's
version better.
So you see these things where
they're dropping the stuff,
even back when it first starts.
Kenneth Arnold,
his daughter is now
going to be part of
this "701" documentary
that James Fox is
trying to put out.
He does an interview with her,
and she shows these photographs
that her father was given
by the Fourth Air Force.
>>NOORY: Of things
he saw, right?
>>CAMERON: Well, no, of
objects that they had filmed,
and it looks like
gun camera footage.
>>NOORY: But they were similar
to what Arnold had seen.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, and
said, this is for real.
We want you to tell them.
So if you're covering
it up, why are you
giving Kenneth
Arnold photographs
and trying to assure him
that this stuff is real?
So what I do is I
go through the book.
And when you see
it year by year,
year after year after year, and
you go like, wow, and even now,
I say there's at least
six initiatives going
on at the very present
moment, where they're trying
to drop this thing indirectly.
So it's not that
they're disclosing.
They're doing the
gradual disclosure,
the acclimatization, or as
Bob Bigelow describes it,
a confirmation that
this thing's for real.
>>NOORY: Why?
Why are they doing that?
>>CAMERON: Well,
they're doing it
because the aliens
are doing it as well.
Whoever the force is behind,
they're dropping hints.
They're revealing themselves.
They're talking to experiencers.
There's, like, these
4,000 experiencers.
>>NOORY: And the government
can't control that.
>>CAMERON: They
So they have to
realize that they're
behind the eight
ball on this thing,
that this thing is unraveling.
And you don't want
people back in 1947.
You want them out there.
For example, the latest
story that when I heard it
two months ago I went, come on,
already, it's the portal story.
And I go, portal?
Come on.
A portal?
And this is the story
they're trying to put out.
So the story is being
put out by Ron Pandolfi.
And Ron Pandolfi,
The New York Times
described him as the head
scientist of the CIA in 1996.
I know for a fact that in
the Rockefeller Initiative
documents, when Rockefeller
came to the White House--
>>NOORY: To get these answers.
>>CAMERON: --to
get the answers, he
was dealing with the
president's science adviser, who
was Dr. Jack Gibbons.
Now Jack Gibbons, as soon as
he heard Rockefeller was coming
and he wanted to
talk about UFOs,
requested a UFO
briefing from the CIA.
And it was given to Dr.
Ronald Pandolfi to do.
Now Pandolfi didn't do it.
He gave it to Bruce
Maccabee because we're CIA.
We can't do an
official, open briefing.
>>NOORY: And Bruce
has gone public.
>>CAMERON: And so
Bruce puts it out.
But it doesn't mean anything.
It's a private citizen
telling his version of UFOs.
It doesn't mean anything.
So Pandolfi would go in the back
door and do the real briefing.
And so this is
part of the record,
that he was given
that job in 1993.
He's been doing this since 1983.
So he's one of the
people that appears
to be behind one of
these initiatives.
And the thing is the
thing with the portal.
And they're actually putting
this stuff on open internet
stuff.
His wife's name is
Aliyah Pandolfi.
>>NOORY: Is that on YouTube
and things like that?
>>CAMERON: It's on YouTube.
She has her own YouTube
channel, and she's
putting these things on.
And at one point, Ron
Pandolfi is on camera.
And he says, the president
will deal with this,
or the world will
return to a singularity.
Now we don't know
what job he has.
I hear that they go
to Langley everyday.
We knew he was at one
point with the director
of national intelligence, above
the CIA, in the White House.
So he's very high level,
whatever his classified job is.
And when he comes on camera
and says the president
will deal with this, and then
on a second YouTube video
that was released by his wife--
and this is scattered in
a bunch of other talks
that they're having--
he talks about the portal.
And I couldn't believe it.
He's on camera, talking
about this porta.
He doesn't use the word portal.
>>NOORY: Everything that you
hear, that corroborates it.
>>CAMERON: You and I
both know Chris Bledsoe.
Chris Bledsoe is part of
an initiative as well.
Chris Bledsoe, and I've
had a number of encounters,
very dramatic
encounters with Chris,
so I've known Chris for a while.
And I knew that he had a CIA guy
that was connected to the White
House.
>>NOORY: Feeding him?
>>CAMERON: That
was directing him,
he calls him his mentor,
that's sort of directing him.
And he's the guy that's running
Tom DeLonge's operation.
His name is Jim Semivan.
And he's a briefer for
the president as well.
So you have Semivan,
and you have
Pandolfi, who are both
briefers for the president.
They're not butlers.
I mean, they're the top guys.
So Semivan, I had
heard about Semivan
even before he went
to Tom DeLonge.
Now he's openly come
out with Tom DeLonge
and said that April
of 2016, he heard
what Tom DeLonge was
doing, that he had
these contacts in the military.
And he's directing this.
So, of course, I
asked Chris Bledsoe.
I said, what's the
thing with the portal?
And he contacted Semivan, and
he said Semivan confirmed it.
There's a portal.
And I'm going, unbelievable.
So they want this portal thing.
And this ties into this
consciousness thing,
which is so important to me,
is that most people think
that the UFO thing
is going to be
the president is going to
stand up and say, ETs are here.
But it may not be ETs.
>>NOORY: It's not
gonna happen like that.
>>CAMERON: It may be what
they call ultra-terrestrials.
And the portal idea is
the consciousness thing,
that when you go
through the portal,
it's almost like going into a
lucid dream world, where you
can actually manifest on the
other side of the portal,
that it's interdimensional.
It's consciousness.
And that's what Semivan--
if you read Semivan, he does a
forward to Tom DeLonge's book.
Now the importance of
Semivan is that people
think there are just evil
people in government.
I know a number
of the people that
are connected with Chris
Bledsoe and a number
of these high-level people.
And they're not evil people.
They're just people who are
very interested themselves.
>>NOORY: They want
these answers.
>>CAMERON: Semivan
is an experiencer.
He had an experience in the
1990s with him and his wife.
This is a guy that
briefs the president.
He has this experience
with his wife.
So when he writes in
Tom DeLonge's forward
to his paperback book
for "Chasing Shadows,"
he actually talks a little
bit about his experience.
And he said, it changed
my view of reality.
He said, basically, the idea
that we can measure, you know,
like the physical thing,
he said, is laughable.
He said, how do you
quantify something
where there is no
there there, that this
may be some other consciousness,
some other dimension?
And that's where the
portal idea comes in,
is that they're trying
to get across the idea
that this may not be
a physical phenomenon.
The president can't say it's
ET, because it's more than ET,
which when you start
talking to experiencers,
you start to realize
that this may be true.
For example, I'm very
interested in experiencers
because I believe
that you're not
going to learn much by
looking at lights in the sky.
But you will learn a
lot by talking to people
who have been on the ship.
And Edgar Mitchell's foundation
has 4,000 of these people.
And they're all talking.
And you have these patterns.
When they answer the questions,
you have these patterns.
So one of the things that they
have is something that I ran up
after I got dragged
into consciousness
through an experience in 2012.
I had a woman in
2013 that told me
that she was flying the ship.
And I went, you're flying
the-- and I thought she was--
>>NOORY: Did you believe her?
>>CAMERON: I thought
she was nuts.
I mean, I had heard a lot
of weird stories about that.
I was thinking to
myself, you're nuts.
So I said to her, well,
how do you fly a ship?
And she said, well, you
do it with your mind.
And then I started
checking these people.
And I have three dozen people.
>>NOORY: They corroborate that?
>>CAMERON: They all
say the same thing.
Nobody says anything different.
>>NOORY: You had
mentioned President Obama,
when he was on Kimmel's show.
I want everybody to take
a look at what he said.
>>KIMMEL: If I was
the president--
and it's unlikely that
is ever going to happen.
>>BARACK OBAMA: You never know.
It was unlikely that I
was going to be president.
>>KIMMEL: The moment
I was inaugurated,
my hand would still be hot
from touching the Bible.
And I would immediately race
to wherever they have the files
about Area 51 and UFOs.
And I'd go through everything
to find out what happened.
Did you do that?
>>OBAMA: That's why you
will not be president,
because that's the first
thing that you would do.
>>KIMMEL: It's at
the top of my list.
>>OBAMA: The aliens
won't let it happen.
You'd reveal all their secrets.
They exercise strict
control over us.
>>KIMMEL: Now you
know, there are
a lot of people that
are going to examine
your facial expressions here,
every twitch, everything.
And, of course, so did you look?
Did you see?
Did you explore?
>>OBAMA: I-- I-- I
can't reveal anything.
>>KIMMEL: Oh, really?
Because President Clinton
said he did go right in,
and he did check.
And there was nothing.
>>OBAMA: Well, you know, that's
what we're instructed to say.
>>NOORY: You know, there's a lot
of truth to what he just said.
>>CAMERON: Exactly,
yeah, he's just
using jokes to walk around.
He was actually telling
the truth the whole way.
And that's the idea.
It's almost like you
don't want to, in history
when this thing gets
revealed, be recorded
as having lied about it.
>>NOORY: Well, when he said
the things like the aliens
don't want us to know or say
anything, he kind of chuckled.
But there could be a lot
of truth behind that.
>>CAMERON: I agree.
That's one of the stories
that I've heard recently
is, if you remember
back in the days when--
a critical story
I tell in the book
is about when they were
going to brief Bush,
when the Soviet Union fell.
Gorbachev dissolves
the Soviet Union.
The opposition takes over.
Three days later, his
people take over again,
and they have this
sort of thing.
At that present time, there
was this convoy leaving the UN.
And the Secretary
General Perez de Cuellar,
according to Hopkins,
was abducted.
And the story I
have been hearing
is that the president has been
abducted a couple of times.
>>NOORY: Hopkins wrote a
book about that, didn't he?
>>CAMERON: Yeah, and
so this is the idea,
that if they grabbed
Perez de Cuellar,
and if these stories that
I'm hearing are true,
that the president has
actually been abducted,
just to show who's
running the show,
this is the kind of stuff
where it's almost like--
I think Semivan was
asked, who's in charge?
And he said, they are.
>>NOORY: You talk a lot
about consciousness.
How come, with UFOs?
>>CAMERON: Well, again, it was,
like, my initial experience.
I just got dragged into it.
I was the nuts and bolts guy.
I was the government
document stuff,
and I was going down that road.
And I was watching a lecture,
Colin Andrews, in 2012,
in Phoenix, Arizona.
And he was talking
on crop circles.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he's
one of the best.
>>CAMERON: I had no
interest in crop circles.
And you know what it's like.
You've been to UFO
Congress a number of times.
You don't go to everything.
It goes from 8
o'clock in the morning
till 11 o'clock at night,
so you pick and choose.
You go for dinner
with people and stuff.
And I thought, I'm not going
to go to the lecture I'm not
interested.
But then I'm thinking,
well, he's a major figure.
It's like the Rolling
Stones are in town.
Let's go and watch, you know?
So I said, OK, I'll go watch.
But I really wasn't
paying attention.
And that's what happened with
this consciousness thing.
My idea is that you tuned
into the right station.
And I had tuned out
of his, and I had
tuned into the right station.
And suddenly I
got this download.
And it came instantaneously.
And the way I describe it, it
came with absolute certainty.
You don't have to question this.
You don't have to look.
It's almost like a savant who is
able to do mathematical stuff.
>>NOORY: You just know.
>>CAMERON: You just know.
>>NOORY: And it came.
And what came was three items.
And they're items I had
put together in my history.
I just had never
put them together.
I took the three items.
I said, here they are, and
this how they go together.
One was in 1950, the
Canadian government
had gone to the
Americans and then
asked the Americans
in 1950, what's
going on with flying saucers?
And they were told, it's the
most highly classified subject
in the United States.
Flying saucers exist.
It's of tremendous
significance to the Americans.
And they've got a small group,
headed by Dr. Vannevar Bush.
And I used to lecture on this.
What came into my
mind in that second
was the very next
line in the document.
And it said, we were also
told by American officials
that other things
might be associated
with the flying saucers,
such as mental phenomena.
And the Americans aren't doing
very well because they've said,
if we're working on it, they're
willing to exchange credentials
and talk to us.
The key to that
is in 1950, there
was nobody talking to aliens.
Betty and Barney
Hill's book would not
be released till the 1960s.
>>NOORY: Look Magazine came
out right around that period
with that story.
>>CAMERON: Adamski
wouldn't come forward
till about seven or eight
days after the detonation
of the hydrogen bomb.
So there was nobody saying,
we're talking to aliens,
and they're telepathic.
So how did the Americans
know that mental phenomena
was involved?
Now I believe it
was because they
had a live alien at Roswell.
And the alien was
talking in their head.
And they realized, like, wow.
>>NOORY: How is this happening?
>>CAMERON: Yeah, this
is important stuff.
So that was the one thing
that popped into my head.
The second one
was, as I said, we
chased Dr. Eric Walker at
Penn State University, who
had worked for
Eisenhower, had 14
honorary doctorate
degrees, chairman
of the board of the Institute
for the Advanced Sciences.
>>NOORY: Didn't deny
anything, did he?
>>CAMERON: He would
walk around it.
He would talk in
rhymes and riddles.
So at one point, he was being
asked about the MJ-12 group.
What's with MJ-12?
Is it still all Americans?
Or is it all just 12 people?
Or are there more
than 12 people?
He said, let me
ask you a question.
What do you know about ESP?
And the guy didn't
have an answer.
He said, look.
Unless you understand
about ESP and how it works,
you will not be taken
in by the control group.
Very few people understand.
That was 1991.
>>NOORY: That's pretty dramatic.
>>CAMERON: And I had no
idea until that download.
I had no idea.
And suddenly in that
download in 2012,
I go, oh, that's what
he's talking about.
It was like I had
put it together.
It's like, this is what
he was talking about.
And then two years later, the
third piece of the puzzle--
Walker was 1991.
In 1993, Ben Rich, the head
of Lockheed Skunk Works,
is at UCLA, giving a lecture
to the engineering alumni.
And Jan Harzan is in there
with his buddy, Keller.
And at the last slide he
shows is a flying saucer.
And he says, we now have the
technology to take ET home.
And Harzan looks at
Keller, and he says,
did you just hear what he said?
Can you believe that?
And, of course, you
know that Jan Harzan
had this experience at nine
years old in his backyard
with a flying saucer.
And he was obsessed
with flying saucers.
So he wanted to build
a flying saucer.
And he became an
electrical engineer.
>>NOORY: To do that.
>>CAMERON: To do that, and he
realized, this is my chance.
So Ben is leaving the building
after answering questions.
And he realizes, I've got to go.
And he chases Ben.
And he says, Ben,
I've been obsessed
with this for my whole life.
I need to know.
How do they get here?
How does their
propulsion system work?
And Ben turns around.
And he says exactly what
Walker said two years before.
He said, let me
ask you a question.
What do you know about ESP?
And he said, it means everything
in time and space is connected?
And he said, that's how
it works, and walks out
of the building.
So when this woman tells
me you use your mind,
this is the thing.
This is the connection
to the whole thing.
It's this consciousness thing.
And even Tom DeLonge, if
you look at Tom DeLonge,
he says he has the meeting
at Lockheed Skunk Words.
He gets in there.
And he's talking to them.
And he's ready to leave.
And they say, where
are you going?
And he said, I thought
the meeting was over.
He said, no, sit down.
>>NOORY: Oh, they had more.
>>CAMERON: And the head
scientist is there.
And he said, how
do they get here?
How does it work?
And he tells them this idea.
And he says, oh, that's
a pretty good idea.
What else?
He said, I think
consciousness is involved.
And he said, the head
scientist at Lockheed
says, now you're talking.
And he said that's all the head
scientist wanted to talk about.
So this confirmed
my download in 2012,
that this is a key component
of this whole thing.
And so that comes
to the portal, it's
this idea that it's this
interdimensional thing.
It may not be nuts
and bolts the way
we think it's nuts and bolts.
>>NOORY: Why are all
these great musicians
interested in consciousness?
>>PAUL MCCARTNEY: And I
had a piano by the bed.
And I just woke up one morning
with this tune in my head.
I thought, I don't
know this tune.
Or do I?
It's, like, an old
jazz tune or something,
because my dad used to know
a lot of old jazz stuff.
Well, maybe I've just
remembered it or something.
[HUMMING]
I sort of got up,
went to the piano,
and found the chords to it.
You know, it was, like, in
G, F sharp, minor, seventh,
sort of B in there.
And I kind of just remembered
it, made sure I remembered it.
And then I just hocked it round
to all my friends and stuff
and said, what's this?
You know, it's got
to be something.
It's, like, a good,
little tune, you know.
And I couldn't have written
it because I just dreamed it.
You know, you don't
get that lucky.
>>NOORY: Former
Beatle Paul McCartney,
who had a consciousness
experience in a dream state.
>>CAMERON: And I
wrote about that
in a book called
"Inspired, the Paranormal
World of Creativity."
And in there, I talk about
some of his other dreams.
He had the dream,
"Let it Be," which
was number 1 for 11 weeks
in the United States,
one of the top
songs of all times.
>>NOORY: We was very
influenced by that song.
>>CAMERON: And everybody
thought it was the Mother Mary,
and it's not.
His mother, whose
name was Mary, who
died when he was 13
years old of cancer,
a troubling time in his
life at the late '60s when
the Beatles were breaking
up, came to him in a dream.
And he said it was
so nice to see her.
And she said, it'll be OK.
Let it be.
And so in my book,
I put 150 songs
that musicians got in dreams.
And it's the same sort of thing.
This idea is whether you're
a psychic or remote viewer
or whatever it is,
it's the ability
to tune in, to shut
down the left brain,
your voice that's talking.
And that's why when
you have someone
like Dr. Powell working
with autistic kids,
they have left brain damage.
So that's shut down.
It's almost like they're
meditating all the time.
And their right brain can do--
>>NOORY: You can
compensate for that.
>>CAMERON: --do
all the telepathy.
And she has this kid that does
162 numbers in a row, and just
amazing stuff.
And so, to me, that's
the most amazing part,
is realizing that it's
not a physical world,
and that musicians
are tuning into it,
artists are tuning into it.
And it's just a matter of
learning how to do this.
>>NOORY: Explain
how consciousness
ties into ufology.
>>CAMERON: Well, I
think the basic thing
is that consciousness is
primary, that it is not
a physical world.
It's the dual-slit
experiment, where
until there's an observer,
the wave maintains itself
as a quantum wave potential.
As soon as there's an observer,
it changes to a particle.
So a particle does not
appear in time and space
until there's an observer.
So consciousness is primary.
It's consciousness
that creates the brain,
and not the other way around.
Consciousness is primary,
and that's the whole idea.
If you remember the entangled
particle experiment,
where you have one particle--
Einstein didn't believe this,
spooky action at a distance.
You have a particle here
and a particle there.
You change the spin
of this particle,
and the other one will
instantaneously change.
>>NOORY: It's affected by it.
>>CAMERON: That's
the whole thing
about what Ben Rich
was talking about, ESP.
What I think they're doing
is they're not flying, like,
at the speed of light.
They're actually moving
like entangled particles,
because they realize if
there's no time and space,
as Jan Harzan has said, all
things in time and space
are connected.
If it's just one, if
everything is one,
it's like a giant hologram.
They're not flying
through things.
They understand you just
change part of the equation,
and you can move from one part
of the hologram to the other.
>>NOORY: Is that how
they're getting here?
>>CAMERON: Yeah,
and that's where
you get this thing where
you ask experiencers,
how do you fly the ship?
Chris Bledsoe, if you ever
interview Chris Bledsoe,
I have a five-minute interview.
He goes step by step
by step by step.
You put your hand on this thing.
It starts to change color.
The whole ship starts
to change shape and size
and stuff like this.
And they all are
describing the same thing.
>>NOORY: How far advanced
is that from our technology
today, a million years?
>>CAMERON: Here's the thing.
They could be absolutely
millions of years ahead of us.
Even if you take a
look at the beings,
the number one reported
being is not a Grey.
It's not an alien.
It's a ball of light.
So if it's a ball of
light, does a ball of light
have toast and
eggs for breakfast?
No, I mean, it may not even
be a physical phenomenon.
That's where I ask
Betty Andreasson,
did it ever get any older?
Maybe it's just a
ball of light that
can change and come into
the physical environment
and move back.
And we just can't move out
of the physical environment.
They can just move in.
They can move out.
So once you understand
that you can
move through these
dimensions or consciousness--
and even, like, Jim Semivan
is basically hinting.
This is consciousness.
The head of Lockheed
Skunk Works is saying,
the basis of this thing, to
understand it, is conscious.
>>NOORY: In your
book "Managic Magic,"
will we get that kind of
disclosure, as they continue,
as you say, leak it out to us?
>>CAMERON: I think they're
giving us the key components.
Like, the one with the
consciousness thing,
Tom DeLonge is bringing it out.
So is Chris Bledsoe.
So is Semivan's people,
stuff like that, the idea.
I don't think they're
ever going to do
an outright disclosure because
they may not have the answers.
In fact, in the book,
I give the 64 reasons
that they're not going
to tell you the truth.
And if you take a look at
what one of the CIA people,
Kit Green, says
when he was asked,
he said, what would you do
if you had to deal with it?
It's fine to sit on the outside
and say, they should do this.
They should do that.
But if you suddenly
had this problem,
what are you going to do?
And so what I did was, because
I had done all the presidents,
I realized that Jimmy
Carter was adamant he
was going to disclose.
And so was Gerald Ford.
And when they went
into the White House--
>>NOORY: And it never happened.
>>CAMERON: They never
even used the word UFO.
If you check the
presidential record,
they never used
the word UFO once
when they were in
the White House.
And the question was, I
said, they're honest guys.
What changed their mind?
They must have told them
something to change their mind.
And that's why I
wrote the 64 reasons.
And you start looking at
the 64 reasons, I mean,
do we understand everything?
Are you willing to put
your cards on the table
and then find out you've given
the Russians the cards they
want?
And they've got
all the cards now,
and you've only get
80% of the cards.
>>NOORY: I know the former
president, late president's
son, Michael Reagan.
And Michael would told me that
his dad was a staunch believer
in UFOs, saw one when
he was in a plane once,
was obsessed with it, gave
that speech before the United
Nations as well.
>>CAMERON: And if you
go to Shirley MacLaine,
Shirley MacLaine was quoted
in a British newspaper.
And I went to Shirley MacLaine.
And I said, are you misquoted?
And the answer came back,
no, I'm not misquoted.
What she said is
Lucille Ball told her.
He didn't have a sighting.
He had an encounter
with an alien being,
which makes him an
experiencer, the same
as Jimmy Carter had a sighting.
>>NOORY: Disclosure,
will it happen
during this administration?
>>CAMERON: What I've been
told is this administration
has been picked.
But I do not believe
there will ever
be an open, full disclosure.
I believe that
they're going to do
more of the gradual disclosure.
I cannot see this happening.
But I have been told
that this president was
picked for some sort of
major disclosure initiative.
>>NOORY: Does this
president know he's the one?
>>CAMERON: He has been briefed.
I know that for a fact.
He has been briefed.
He knows.
And what Dr. Ronald
Pandolfi said
is that "he is
open to disclosure,
and he's against
disinformation."
That's a quote from
Ronald Pandolfi.
>>NOORY: I want to
wrap this up, Grant,
by looking at a clip
of then-President Obama
before a Hispanic group.
>>OBAMA: Now none
of this was easy.
There were some
tough years in there.
You had fiscal showdowns
and government shutdowns
and pandemics and oil
spills and pirates.
Do you all remember the pirates?
I mean, the only
thing we haven't
had to deal with is, like,
the asteroid, you know,
or the aliens.
That's true, good point.
I shouldn't have
mentioned the aliens.
>>NOORY: Once again,
he brings them up.
There's got to be
something there.
>>CAMERON: And it's
going to maybe come down
to someone like you who gets
an interview where you realize
what questions to ask.
>>NOORY: Or I interview
you, because you get it.
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Grant, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>CAMERON: Thank you.
>>NOORY: The
information that you
provide and have provided
to us over the years
has been absolutely stunning.
>>CAMERON: Beautiful,
thank you, sir.
>>NOORY: I appreciate that.
>>CAMERON: I appreciate it.
>>NOORY: It's so great to have
people who are just prime UFO
investigators, who are out
there, working on getting us
the answers to that great
question, are we or are we
not alone in the universe?
Thank you for watching.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]